## Dosa Restaurant REST API Backend:

This project is a REST API backend for a dosa restaurant. It provides CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for three main objects: customers, items, and orders. The backend is built using FastAPI and uses an SQLite database to store and retrieve data.

## Project Structure:

-`db_init.py`: Script to initialize an empty SQLite database with relational constraints based on the provided `example_orders.json` file.

-`main.py`: FastAPI application implementing endpoints for CRUD operations on customers, items, and orders.

-`example_orders.json`: Sample data file used to populate the database during initialization.

-`db.sqlite`: SQLite database file where data is stored.

## Installation and Setup:

1.Clone the repository: 
  
  `git clone <repository_url>`

2.Install dependencies:
  
  `pip install fastapi`
  
  `pip install uvicorn`
  
  `pip install pydantic`


## Database Initialization:

To initialize the SQLite database with sample data:

`python db_init.py`

This script creates tables for customers, items, and orders, and populates them with data from 'example_orders.json'.

## Running the FastAPI Application:

To start the FastAPI application:

`uvicorn main:app --reload`

After running the above command the server runs successfully by generating a URL.The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000.`.

## API Endpoints
 Here is a concise overview of the endpoints and their functionality:
 
Customers:

-`POST /customers/`: Create a new customer.

-`GET /customers/{cust_id}`: Retrieve a customer by ID.

-`PUT /customers/{cust_id}`: Update a customer by ID.

-`DELETE /customers/{cust_id}`: Delete a customer by ID.

Items:

-`POST /items/`: Create a new item.

-`GET /items/{item_id}`: Retrieve an item by ID.

-`PUT /items/{item_id}`: Update an item by ID.

-`DELETE /items/{item_id}`: Delete an item by ID.

Orders:

-`POST /orders/`: Create a new order.

-`GET /orders/{order_id}`: Retrieve an order by ID.

-`PUT /orders/{order_id}`: Update an order by ID.

-`DELETE /orders/{order_id}`: Delete an order by ID.

These endpoints allow users to perform CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update, Delete) on customers, items, and orders, providing a comprehensive API for managing data related to the dosa restaurant.

## Usage:

Copy the URL `http://localhost:8000` and paste it in a new tab and add /docs to the URL. 

It looks like this `http://localhost:8000/docs`. 

After successfully running the URL we get the fastapi interface with all the endpoints. There we can perform all the CRUD operations 

# Important Note for POST Method 

While using the POST method for all three tables, ensue that you delete the `id: 0` generated by the FastAPI and  fill in the other columns as per your requirements. 

